Documentation: add advanced programming terminology documentation (#1006)
PowerGridModel/power-grid-model: docs/advanced_documentation/terminology.md

announcements regarding bugs of this nature.

#### Nonsensical results

Sometimes, bugs in the code can cause clearly nonsensical results, like not-a-number (NaN/`np.nan`)
values in the output. Like in the case of [incorrect results](#incorrect-results), no exceptions are
raised (if there were, it would not be a bug of this type) and therefore may be hidden for a long
time until they first appear. However, they are easy to detect, especially in production
environments with (real-time) monitoring and other tools, programs and libraries that do their own
error handling.

Their visibility makes solving them usually easy. If you encounter them, please report them. We will
usually post announcements regarding bugs of this nature.

#### Undefined behavior bugs

See also [below](#undefined-behavior-ub-as-a-bug).

Although the power grid model takes all the care they can in preventing
[undefined behavior](#undefined-behavior-ub-as-a-bug) like infinite loops or extreme blow-up of the
data usage, it is still possible that such behavior exists in the code. If you find any such issues,
please report the issue and we will fix them as soon as possible.

#### Incorrect exceptions

> Sometimes, exceptions are raised when they should not be. For example, a `NotObservableError` that
> is raised, even though the scenario actually contains an observable grid, would be a bug. They can

Reviewer: I find the wording a bit weird here. Maybe something along the lines of:

```suggestion
Sometimes, exceptions are raised when they should not be. For example, a `NotObservableError` that
is raised when the current scenario contains an observable grid, would be a bug. They can
```

If you find any such issues, please report the issue and explicitly mention that you suspect a bug
in the power grid model, together with a reasoning as to why you think so. That way, the maintainers
can take extra care to investigate before coming back to you with an answer.

#### Incorrect/outdated documentation

The power grid model maintainers will always try to keep the documentation up-to-date. However, it
is always possible that sections of the documentation become outdated. Please help us keep our
documentation up-to-date by reporting and/or fixing issues.

### Bad input

This is a problem with the input data. They cannot be considered bugs in the power grid model and
instead are the users' responsibility.

In certain cases, the [data validator](../user_manual/data-validator.md) can catch data issues.
However, it is not guaranteed to provide an exhaustive check.

#### Unsupported input

The power grid model explicitly forbids certain (combinations of) values. For example, a negative
`u_rated` on a node is not allowed. Unsupported input will always be documented in the
power grid model documentation.

> Checking every single combination of input parameters would come at a significant performance cost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checking every single combination of input parameters would come at a significant performance cost.
```

In addition, for most use cases, incorrect input data happens mostly during the development phase of
a user workflow. In production environments, when performance is usually important, the data is
usually already sanitized and can be assumed to be correct. Because of this, assuring the

> correctness is the users' responsibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
correctness of the input data is the users' responsibility.
```

However, most data errors of this kind can be found using the
[data validator](../user_manual/data-validator.md).

#### Incorrect input

The power grid model assumes that the input data is correct. Of course, the power grid model cannot
know whether a user provided the grid correctly. For example, if the user adds a source to the wrong
node, the power grid model can only obey.

Input correctness is entirely the users' responsibility. The
[power-grid-model-ds visualiser](https://power-grid-model-ds.readthedocs.io/en/stable/visualizer.html)

> may provide some tools to help with the investigation.

Reviewer: I think this and the above (Incorrect input) can be combined together. Thoughts?

Author: i had that originally, but i found that they really are 2 different types: one is detectable, the other is not. it's quite difficult to combine them, especially because we're talking terminology here

data validator and/or documentation may not capture all the supported and unsupported values for the
data.

We do not guarantee anything concerning experimental features and using and enabling them is
entirely up to the user. Any input regarding experimental features is always appreciated.

### Edge case

A scenario in which the behavior of the program changes significantly when one or more parameters
change slightly. Examples include the following.

* The input value `0` when taking the square root of a floating point:
  * A positive value will result in valid output data
  * A negative value will result in not-a-number values (NaN/`np.nan`); spurious
* Saddle-points in equations with many local optima may result in different optima, e.g.:
  * Different local optima (not spurious)
  * Short-circuit solutions (spurious)
  * Divergent domain (spurious)
  * Differences in amount of iterations before convergence is reached (not spurious)

#### Non-spurious edge cases

In non-spurious edge cases, the current behavior of the power grid model is actually correct.

Many edge cases are inherent to the problem statement, like the amount of iterations it takes before

> a solution is found in an iterative calculation method, are not problematic. Even if you encounter

Reviewer: What did you intend to say with "are not problematic"? Phrasing seems weird.

Author: rephrased. better?

Some edge cases may be input data errors. Please always double-check that the data is valid before
reporting an issue, e.g., by running our [data validator](../user_manual/data-validator.md). Please
also check whether your input data is correctly created and contains no obvious errors like sensors
that are marked as measuring a node while, in fact, they are actually measuring branch flow.

Other examples of non-spurious edge cases are cases in which the power grid model reports a
`NotObservableError`.

#### Spurious edge cases

Some edge cases are actual problems with the code. Some of them may be easy to solve, while others
may be extremely difficult to find and/or resolve. Occasionally, even, more research is still needed
before a satisfactory fix to the edge case can be found. An example of the latter is shown in
[this paper](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.11650), which was published as collaboration
between ICT for industy and power grid model.

#### Resolving edge cases

If you encounter any edge case, please double-check your data quality, e.g., by running our
[data validator](../user_manual/data-validator.md) and verifying that the source of your data is

> up-to-date and correct. Please also try things like increasing the error tolerance to see if that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
up-to-date and correct. Please also try things like increasing the error tolerance or the number of iterations (when applicable) to see if that
```

##### Unspecified behavior

The behavior of the program varies between implementations, and the conforming implementation is not
required to document the effects of each behavior. Examples are the internal implementation,
features that are still under development/experimental and the contents of the output of failing
scenarios if exceptions were thrown and `continue_on_batch_error=True`.

Encountering unspecified behavior is considered a problem with the user input.

Unspecified behavior shall **never** be considered a bug from a user point of view. The developers
may change the behavior at any time without notice. For example, a new exception may be thrown that
changes the behavior from unspecified behavior to specified exception-throwing.

**NOTE:** PRs changing unspecified behavior may still be marked as a bugfix PR, if developers
consider the previous behavior unexpected and/or undesirable. Examples are fixes to the behavior of
a new feature that is still experimental/under development, but for which the developers thought
that the behavior was already correctly implemented, before they found out that it was not.

##### Undefined behavior (subclass)

> Undefined behavior is also a subclass of undefined behavior that is defined as follows:

Reviewer: Is this phrasing intended? UB is a subclass of UB itself?

Author: yes it is like that in the C++ standard https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/ub.html

enabled future compatibility while still providing useful feedback to the user that an unsupported
option was provided.

This example shows that undefined behavior is not necessarily bad - it just needs to be handled with
care. It does so by explicitly creating a boundary between what is the program's responsibility and
and what is the users'.

#### Undefined behavior (UB) as a bug

Triggering undefined behavior is a potential source for [security vulnerabilities](#undefined-behavior-bugs)
and should therefore be avoided. Triggering undefined behavior should always be conidered a bug,
regardless of whether it is caused by an incorrect internal implementation of the power grid model
or a result of incorrect usage by a user.

To help both users and maintainers to find incorrect usage of and bugs in the power grid model, it
uses an error handling mechanism. It also has extended assertion checks in Debug build configuration
used in test and development environments to prevent internal bugs.

To prevent, find and fix harder-to-find instances of undefined behavior, the power grid model uses

> tools like AddressSanitizer and Sonar Qube Cloud. We strongly recommend all users to do the same -

Reviewer: Nitpick: I believe this is the correct naming.
```suggestion
tools like AddressSanitizer and Sonar QubeCloud. We strongly recommend all users to do the same -
```

Author: nope, if we're going to nitpick stylization, it should be SonarQube Cloud according to their own website https://www.sonarsource.com/products/sonarcloud/
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c1cc211-ac3b-42c3-b547-25b0a95ca9f3)

updated with the correct stylization

especially the ones using the C API.

If you find or expect any undefined behavior, please report it and/or

> [contribute](../user_manual/model-validation.md#test-case-creation) the repro case, as doing so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[contribute](../user_manual/model-validation.md#test-case-creation) with a reproducible case, as doing so
```
